Add quickstart example (#1140)
testing-library/testing-library-docs: docs/react-testing-library/example-intro.mdx

sidebar_label: Example
---

## Quickstart

> This is a very simple setup to get you started. 

Reviewer: Let's drop the "simple". This may apply to us but not necessarily for learners.

Author: @eps1lon Done!

If you want to see a description of what each line does, 
scroll down to the [annotated version](#quickstart-annotated).
Scroll down to [Full Example](#full-example) to see a more advanced test setup.

```jsx

> import {render, fireEvent, waitFor, screen} from '@testing-library/react'
> import '@testing-library/jest-dom'
> import Fetch from '../fetch'
> 
> test('loads and displays greeting', async () => {
> 
>   // ARRANGE
>   render(<Fetch url="/greeting" />)
>   
>   // ACT
>   fireEvent.click(screen.getByText('Load Greeting'))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
import {render, waitFor, screen} from '@testing-library/react'
import userEvent from '@testing-library/user-event'
import '@testing-library/jest-dom'
import Fetch from '../fetch'

function setup(jsx) {
  return {
    user: userEvent.setup(),
    ...render(jsx),
  }
}

test('loads and displays greeting', async () => {
  // ARRANGE
  const { user } = setup(<Fetch url="/greeting" />)
  
  // ACT
  await user.click(screen.getByText('Load Greeting'))
```

>   await waitFor(() => screen.getByRole('heading'))

Reviewer 3: To follow best practices: 

```suggestion
  await screen.findByRole('heading')
```

Reviewer 3: Is there a reason to use `waitFor` here instead of `findBy`?

Author: I guess not. The code snippet was taken from the Full example. Thanks for the feedback.

  
  // ASSERT
  expect(screen.getByRole('heading')).toHaveTextContent('hello there')
  expect(screen.getByRole('button')).toBeDisabled()

})
```

<details id="quickstart-annotated">
  <summary>Quickstart (Annotated Example)</summary>

  ```jsx

>   // import react-testing methods
>   import {render, fireEvent, waitFor, screen} from '@testing-library/react'
>   // add custom jest matchers from jest-dom
>   import '@testing-library/jest-dom'
>   // the component to test
>   import Fetch from '../fetch'
> 
>   test('loads and displays greeting', async () => {
> 
>     // Render a React element into the DOM
>     render(<Fetch url="/greeting" />)
>     
>     fireEvent.click(screen.getByText('Load Greeting'))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  // import react-testing methods
  import {render, waitFor, screen} from '@testing-library/react'
  // user-event provides methods for testing interactions
  import userEvent from '@testing-library/user-event'
  // add custom jest matchers from jest-dom
  import '@testing-library/jest-dom'
  // the component to test
  import Fetch from '../fetch'

  function setup(jsx) {
    return {
      // create a user-event instance
      user: userEvent.setup(),
      // render a React element
      ...render(jsx),
    }
  }

  test('loads and displays greeting', async () => {

    // Render the component
    const { user } = setup(<Fetch url="/greeting" />)
    
    await user.click(screen.getByText('Load Greeting'))
```

Author: @ph-fritsche I decided to drop the `setup` version since it's available in version 14. Right now, most of us are using Create-react-app to start working on new React projects and the current CRA setup is still using v13 so the setup example will be breaking when beginners try to run the test with setup on their installations.

>     // getByRole throws an error if it cannot find an element
>     await waitFor(() => screen.getByRole('heading'))

Reviewer 3: To follow best practices: 

```suggestion
    // wait before throwing an error if it cannot find an element
    await screen.findByRole('heading')
```

Author: Done! @timdeschryver
